NSBM Green University
Global level university in Sri Lanka
 inquiries@nsbm.ac.lk +94 11 544 5000 +94 71 244 5000 

NSBM Green University is the first ever green university in South Asia and sets an example for the whole South Asia by paving the way for environmental sustainability. The university is open for both national and international student community and it has turned a new chapter in Sri Lankan higher education.

NSBM Green University operates as a self-financed university and is renowned for its world-class academic offerings. This state-of-the-art university offers nationally and internationally recognized, UGC-approved degree programmes and foreign degree programmes in five faculties: Business, Computing, Engineering, Science, and Postgraduate Studies.

The university is spread over an area of 40 acres and the massive university complex was built with the intention of providing an opportunity for both national and international students to have a fully-fledged education in Sri Lanka. Currently, more than 12,000 students are studying at the university and the highly qualified local and foreign lecturers who teach at the university are committed to preparing these undergraduates to face any challenge the world has to offer. The university’s commitment to excellence in education extends beyond course delivery since the university has created mutually beneficial relationships with the industry to provide students with opportunities to get exposure to the real- world workplaces.

Inspired by the vision of making Sri Lanka the best educational hub in Asia, NSBM Green University is dedicated to gifting future leaders to the world with its fully-fledged university.

Our Vision : To be Sri Lanka’s best-performing graduate school and to be recognized internationally.

Our Mission : To develop globally competitive and responsible graduates that businesses demand, working in synergy with all our stakeholders and contributing to our society.
Our Values

At NSBM Green University, we firmly believe that our values reflect what we believe and guide our actions. Forming the foundation of our identity and influencing every decision and action we take, our values are ingrained in our culture to guide us on our journey towards achieving our mission, vision and objectives. While defining who we are as an organisation, our values also represent our commitment to making a lasting impact on the lives of students, staff, parents, stakeholders, and communities. Our values are,
Striving for Academic Excellence

Excellence is a continuous journey for NSBM. In pursuing excellence, we prioritise academic delivery as a driving force that impulses NSBM’s mission, vision and objectives. It propels us to constantly evolve in providing top-notch university experience, developing innovative educational solutions and nurturing an effective and supportive learning environment.
Dedication to Inspiring Students to Flourish

We keep our faith in the educational journey we offer and the transformative power it holds. Keeping our students at the heart of everything we do, we regard it as true that each and every one of them possesses unique potential that deserves opportunities to flourish. Our dedication to inspiring students unlocks their full potential to thrive, overcome challenges and achieve goals.
Commitment to Fostering Positive Citizenship

As a responsible higher educational institute, we understand the significance of our role in society. Our commitment to fostering positive citizenship makes a profound impact on the communities we serve. At the same time, it drives us to engage in ethical operational practices and sustainability initiatives while fostering a culture of empathy, respect, and inclusivity in contribution to the larger community.
Our Core Competencies

Within the unique and dynamic environment we cultivate at NSBM Green University, our core competencies form the basis that defines our identity, service and success. Guiding our operational approaches and strategic decisions, these core competencies steer every aspect of our work that shapes the ultimate outcome, propelling us towards a future of continued growth and success. Our Core Competencies are,
Our Culture of Continuous Improvement

With a firm belief in continuous improvement, we strive to consistently enhance and refine our practices, processes, and services through a performance culture. This commitment enables us to continually incorporate best practices into our operations and stay updated on our ability to adapt, grow, and excel while embracing innovation and encouraging the spirit of exploration and exploitation.
Our Systems Approach to Leadership & Planning

We ensure that all our decisions and initiatives are guided by a comprehensive and integrated approach to leadership and planning. It is this competency that drives our university’s strategic vision and overarching objectives, allowing us to identify potential opportunities and challenges.
The Graduate Profile of NSBM Green University

Modern education terminology informs of four learning domains: knowledge (K), skills (S), attitudes, values, professionalism, and vision for life (A), and the mindset and paradigm (M) as per the K-SAM Model. One who has completed a study programme will have acquired an education with a mix of learning outcomes from the four learning domains. Further, a given learning outcome may be associated with more than one learning domain.

The core activity of NSBM Green University involves producing resourceful (competitive and responsible) graduates to the world of work, achieved through the conduct of carefully designed course modules with learning outcomes derived from the K-SAM model. Accordingly, at NSBM we expect that our graduates to be equipped with the following learning outcomes (attributes), which transform them to be resourceful citizens. The corresponding learning domain(s) associated with each learning outcome (attribute) are shown within brackets.

    Master a body of knowledge and demonstrate a critical understanding of the core aspects of the major fields of study (K, S);
    Propose viable solutions to problems through effective enquiry and critical analysis while developing and sustaining arguments in their field of study (S);
    Become an intellectual who is open-minded and curious about current and future issues and developments in the relevant area of study (K, M);
    Build the capacity to be creative and innovative (S, A);
    Engage in independent learning and continuously upgrade the knowledge and skills required by the professions (K, S);
    Communicate ideas clearly and disseminate knowledge effectively both in written and oral form (S);
    Demonstrate personal and professional integrity and ethical behaviour (A, M);
    Develop an entrepreneurial attitude with an emphasis on practical problems (A, S);
    Exercise leadership in the professional environment by assuming social and civic responsibilities (A, M); and
    Develop a deep urge to be in harmony with nature (A, M).

By integrating knowledge, skills, attitudes, and mindset, NSBM Green University aims to produce resourceful graduates ready to excel in the dynamic world of work, explore entrepreneurial opportunities and make a positive impact on society and the environment.

Awards & Achievements: 

- Gold Award for State Sector Services, National Business Excellence Awards 2024
- Gold Award for State Sector Services, National Business Excellence Awards 2023
- Silver Award for Excellence in Performance Management, National Business Excellence Awards 2023
- Business Excellence Award for state services sector, National Chamber of Commerce , Sri Lanka, 2018
- Excellence Award for State Services Sector,
National Chamber of Commerce,
Sri Lanka , 2016
- Sri Lanka National Quality Award
Winner of the year 2023
- Gold Award for the Best State Corporations and Statutory Boards Annual Report at
Tags Awards 2022  
-Gold Award for Best Government Institution that Contributes to the Environment 2024
-United Nations Volunteers(UNV) 50 Country Awards – 2021 for Integrating and Promoting the Value of Volunteerism in Sri Lanka

Faculty of Computing :

Faculty of Computing (FOC) provides world-class education and training in Computing and Information Technology, both at the undergraduate as well as postgraduate levels.

FOC offers Ministry of Higher Education approved degree programmes in multiple disciplines. It has also partnered with the world top ranking universities, University of Plymouth in UK and Victoria University in Australia, to provide undergraduates with highly recognized International Degrees. The innovative teaching methods with equal emphasis on both theory and practice, top-notch research, training and development services along with the latest state-of-the-art facilities, form the perfect blend that motivates our students to do their best and reach their goals at the end of their degree programmes. So, look no further for that perfect computing degree; NSBM’s Faculty of Computing is the ideal choice!
Dr. Rasika Ranaweera,
Dean – Faculty of Computing

Offered by NSBM Green University

    BSc (Hons) in Data Science
    BSc (Hons) in Computer Networks
    BSc (Hons) in Computer Science
    BSc (Hons) in Software Engineering
    BSc in Management Information Systems (Special)

After O/Ls

    Foundation Programme for Bachelor’s Degree

Offered by Victoria University - Australia

    Bachelor of Information Technology (Major in Cyber Security)

Offered by Plymouth University - United Kingdom

    BSc (Hons) Technology Management
    BSc (Hons) Computer Science
    BSc (Hons) Computer Networks
    BSc (Hons) Computer Security
    BSc (Hons) Software Engineering
    BSc (Hons) in Data Science
    BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence 

Ms. Yasanthika Mathotaarachchi: 
Lecturer Probationary
Contact

    yasanthika.m@nsbm.ac.lk
    +94 11 544 5000
    Department of Software Engineering
    Faculty of Computing

    Google Scholar
    Linkedin

Profile

Ms. Yasanthika Mathotaarachchi is currently a Lecturer in the Department of Software Engineering and Information Systems, Faculty of Computing at NSBM Green University.

She began her academic career in 2016 as an Assistant Lecturer and has accumulated over eight years of experience in both the private and government sectors, serving as a lecturer and visiting lecturer at several higher education institutions.

Ms. Mathotaarachchi holds a Bachelor’s degree from the University of Moratuwa, graduating with First-Class, and a Master’s degree in Computer Science from the University of Colombo School of Computing. She has also earned a Certificate in Teaching in Higher Education (CTHE) from the Staff Development Center of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

She is a member of the Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Science (SLAAS) and has a strong passion for teaching. Her primary areas of expertise include Software Engineering, Systems Analysis and Design, Software Quality Assurance, Project Management, Database Management Systems, Intelligent Systems, Agent Based Systems and Programming Languages.
Research Interests

    Educational Data Mining
    Ethics & Bias in Educational AI,
    Recommender Systems for Learning Resources
    Natural Language Processing in Education
    Generative AI
    Human-computer interaction

Conference (Full Paper) Publications

    Sandaruwan, K.A.L., Herath, H.M.D.S. and Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. (2023) ‘Combustible Gas Leak Detection and Prevention System for Home Safety using IoT’. *Horizon Campus Research Symposium (HCRS)*, Malabe, Colombo, Sri Lanka, 17 January 2023, p. 25. ISSN 2961-5739.
    Dissanayake, H.M.V.H., Herath, H.M.D.S. and Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. (2023) ‘Design an IoT-based Smart Public Bus Transportation Monitoring System for Sri Lanka’. *Horizon Campus Research Symposium (HCRS)*, Malabe, Colombo, Sri Lanka, 17 January 2023, p. 27. ISSN 2961-5739.
    Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. and Herath, H.M.D.S. (2018) ‘Mining Information Technology Competency Level Among Nurse Students at a Selected Private University in Sri Lanka’. *74th Annual Scientific Sessions of Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Science*, December 2018. ISSN 1391-023X.
    Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. and Herath, H.M.D.S. (2018) ‘Information Technology Competency of Registered Nurse Undergraduates at the Completion of IT Preparatory Course in BSc Nursing Degree at a Selected Private University in Sri Lanka’. *36th National Information Technology Conference (NITC)*, 3 October 2018. ISSN 2279-3895, ISBN 978-1-5386-9135-9. (Oral Presentation).
    Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. and Herath, H.M.D.S. (2018) ‘A Systematic Literature Review of Data Mining in the Field of Education’. *5th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA)*, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Faculty of Graduate Studies, 2 September 2018. ISSN 2386-1509. (Oral Presentation).
    Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. and Herath, H.M.D.S. (2018) ‘A Review on Information Technology Competency for Nursing Informatics’. *5th International Conference on Multidisciplinary Approaches (iCMA)*, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Faculty of Graduate Studies, 2 September 2018. ISSN 2386-1509. (Poster Presentation).
    Mathotaarachchi, Y.T. and Herath, H.M.D.S. (2018) ‘Information Technology Literacy of Registered Nurse Undergraduates at the Beginning of BSc Nursing Degree at a Selected Private University in Sri Lanka’. *International Scientific Sessions on Nursing Research*, 2018. ISBN 978-955-7220-06-2. (Oral Presentation).

Dr. Mohamed Shafraz : 
Senior Lecturer
Contact

    shafraz@nsbm.ac.lk
    +94 11 544 5000 (ext 1230)
    Department of Information and Systems Sciences
    Faculty of Computing

    Google Scholar
    Linkedin

Profile

Dr. Mohamed Shafraz is currently the head of the Department of Software Engineering and Information Systems and a Senior Lecturer at the Faculty of Computing at NSBM Green University. He started his academic career with NIBM in 2008 as an IT Consultant and IT Lecturer. He obtained a Ph.D. in Computer and Systems Sciences at Stockholm University, Sweden, in 2023. Further, he has completed a Bachelor of Information Technology, a Master of Business Administration from the University of Colombo, and an M.Sc. in Information Technology. Furthermore, he has excelled in professional studies, obtaining an Australian Computer Society Examination in IT. Also, a member of IEEE and Computer Society of Sri Lanka.
He has been working with the University of Plymouth, UK, since 2016 as a research project supervisor and lecturer. He served as module leader of the final year computing project module for all the B.Sc. (Hons) in Computing Degrees. He also served as the country coordinator for Victoria University, Australia’s Bachelor of IT degree, in partnership with NSBM Green University.
His primary teaching interests are Object-Oriented Programming, Programming Languages – C, C++, Java, Data Science in Python, Data Structures and Algorithms, Systems Analysis and Design, Information Systems, Software Engineering, and Research Methods. He is actively involved in research activities at the University.
He has published research work in journals and physically attended and presented Conference papers at international conferences. His research interests are ICT for Development(ICT4D), Digital Government, HCI, and AI in Education. Currently, he is engaged in research activities with ActionLab, Monash University, Australia, York St John University, UK, and Stockholm University, Sweden.